hmm feel that chill in the air well you
won't for long thanks to the handy
central heater you have installed in
your home
well flipping on the heat in your home
during the winter months seems like a
no-brainer staying warm took a tad more
effort back in the 19th century okay a
lot more effort from spending the whole
day in the kitchen to rocking expensive
beaver fashions and more there were lots
of creative yet odd ways people used to
keep from freezing back in the day so go
ahead and warm up that brain because
you're about to get a major history
lesson about life in the 19th century
counting down from number 10 focusing on
the hands have you ever walked outside
in the severe cold without gloves
doesn't feel too good now does it it
makes sense that people in the 1800's
would try extra hard to keep their hands
warm during the winter months many
people used a little accessory called a
muff to keep their hands toasty they
were cylindrical in shape and would wrap
around the hands in one big piece you've
probably seen women wearing these muffs
in old impressionist paintings back in
school today you might see an NFL
quarterback use a version to keep his
hands warm before a play in a winter
game and if he goofs it up
they might say he muffed it a
coincidence
maybe probably not meanwhile if you
wanted to step it up a notch back in the
old days you'd upgrade your muff to one
of these bad boys a muff made with
ceramic metal or silver complete with
slow burning charcoal or boiling water
inside now that's a pretty dangerous
moth if I do say so myself
well muffs did a pretty good job of
keeping the hands warm they weren't the
most convenient to where they literally
kept your hands tied
number nine keeping the bed warm in
freezing temperatures staying warm at
night was really tricky there's only so
many blankets you can pack onto a bed to
warm up the bed people would sometimes
put hard ceramic or metal containers
filled with hot coals into the bed
similar to the muff I just mentioned
there were other versions of the bed
warmer that looked like a very long
cooking pan a metal container was
attached to a long wooden handle and
would be filled with hot coals maybe
it's just me but putting hot coals under
a bunch of blankets sounds like a
terrible accident just waiting to happen
today I just have the dog and cat up on
the bed with me it's a little crowded
but it sure is warm number eight a crazy
amount of layers when it's winter it's
common sense to layer up right maybe an
extra sweater under your coat or a scarf
and hat will do but back in the
nineteenth century people often came up
with clever ways to layer their clothing
and it wasn't always the most
conventional many people opted for a
pair or two of long johns undershirts
and leggings some women would wear
multiple petticoats or slips if they
could afford more than one or two writer
Tammy Robinson explained on off-the-grid
comm how her ancestors would go as far
as to stuff chicken feathers in their
socks in the hems of their pants to keep
warm she also said that women would
sometimes wear whole blankets around
their necks like scarves this way their
arms would still be free to do whatever
they needed to number seven hanging out
in the kitchen it's often said that the
kitchen is the best room in the house
but that's usually because it's a place
for families to gather and eat meals
together plus it's the place with all
the snacks but back in the 1800s the
kitchen was also the warmest place in
the house making it the perfect room to
out in on cold days since the kitchen
usually had an open fire for cooking it
would stay toasty warm during the 1800s
iron stove tops became quite popular and
these would generate quite a bit of heat
when it was really cold
families would keep the fire burning all
day long generating a continuous supply
of heat it seems it was the closest
thing they had to a radiator in the home
since it practically pumped hot air into
the kitchen
number six close living quarters in the
1800's unless you had some wealth
families would often live in close
living quarters sometimes in just one
room well this was probably incredibly
difficult at times especially in
families with more than a couple of kids
it was actually very convenient during
the winter snuggling up close meant more
body heat and if the kitchen also
happened to be in this room that meant
there was usually a fire burning five
spending a night out at the pub back in
the nineteenth century
you didn't need a special occasion to go
to the pub for a drink saloons and pubs
were often heated by a fire and packed
with people which meant they were nice
and toasty not to mention the fact that
you'd likely be eating and drinking
which would warm your body up nicely
however this was somewhat of a luxury
since if you wanted to hang out in
Apostle owned you'd be required to buy
something to sip on yep not too high a
price to pay for keeping warm but if you
couldn't afford to do this going out to
the pub may not have been an option
number four
cleverly design home decor while you
decorate your house with vintage pieces
like wing chairs and trendy room
separators it doesn't always occur to
you that they may have served a bigger
purpose than to look pretty during the
mid 1700s people began using wing chairs
in their homes and they continued to be
used well into the 1800s these are
basically armchairs that wrapper
on your sides and face this extra fabric
help protect the face from a cold draft
coming in from an open door there tall
height served the same purpose while
it's fun to refurbish your home with
pretty curtains funky rugs and
tapestries back in the 19th century
these home accessories were a must
that's because decor like curtains and
rugs help insulate a room and retain any
warmth in it thick heavy drapes were
great at keeping cold air seeping
through the cracks of windows at bay and
hanging quilts or tapestries on the
walls was also a great way to keep heat
in a room for those who could afford
them four poster beds were a great piece
to have during the winter with these
types of beds you'd be able to drape
fabric over the top of it and even the
sides keeping any cold air away from you
while you visited dreamland sounds
pretty cozy doesn't it number three foot
warmers similar to the hands a pair of
cold feet can send shivers down your
spine in freezing weather the folks of
the 1800s would use foot warmers to keep
their Tootsie's toasty they were usually
constructed out of wood ten or even
brass and inside them were metal trays
full of hot coals some boxes had carved
designs on the side and they had a rope
or handle on top to make it portable
women would often be seen with their
feet in the warmers and their skirts
covering the entire thing helping to
retain heat around their legs people
also enjoyed the use of foot warmers
when they wrote in sleighs and carriages
to combat the intense outside coal
number two wearing fur in the 1800s
the fur industry was booming to wear fur
was somewhat of a status symbol and the
wealthy loved to wear them around town
but the truth was that these furs were
excellent at keeping people warm during
the most freezing times of the year
unfortunately animals with fur were in
danger during this time since fur was in
such high demand
in 1810 just one season of fur
production took the lives of 30,000
seals from the San Francisco area but
sea otters and seals weren't the only
animals whose fur was desired for those
who could afford it coats and scarves
made of mink beaver gray Fox and more
were incredibly desirable number one an
open fire in the house
ah a warm fireplace sounds nice right
chances are you've seen some pretty nice
ones in your day heck even Netflix has a
fireplace show you can put on to make
your TV look like one but back in the
nineteenth century having an open
fireplace was a big deal when it came to
keeping warm fire was one of the few
things that guaranteed a household any
kind of warmth
however they keep fireplaces going
families would have to go out of their
way to gather lots of firewood and
kindling well it was good to move around
and get their blood pumping this could
turn into an arduous task but it was
necessary if they wanted fire in their
home as the 1800s progressed the
wealthier households could afford to put
fireplaces in multiple rooms these nicer
fireplaces were called Rumford
fireplaces and they were designed to
carry away smoke and reflect heat more
effectively I don't know about you but
all this talk about keeping warm makes
me appreciate the heat we have at our
fingertips today I think I speak for all
of us when I say thank goodness for
snuggly sweats and hoodies now do you
think you'd survive a harsh winter back
in the 1800s
give us your thoughts in the comment
section don't forget to give this video
a like share it with your friends and
click Subscribe stay on the bright side
[Music]
you